‎During the 2015 annual meeting,
‎an announcement
‎was given that would affect
‎Bethels around the world.
‎The Governing Body has directed
‎that a number of our branch
‎and Assembly Hall
‎construction projects worldwide
‎be delayed, reduced in scope,
‎or in some cases cancelled.
‎The Governing Body
‎had two clear objectives
‎in mind with these changes:
‎Firstly, that of making the best use
‎of dedicated funds
‎but ultimately
‎giving even greater emphasis
‎to the preaching
‎and the teaching work.
‎In fact, here in Britain,
‎we were on the brink
‎of starting construction
‎on a new branch office,
‎and we really wondered
‎how these simplifications
‎would affect
‎the construction project.
‎To understand
‎why these changes were important,
‎we first need to take a look
‎at how Bethels function.
‎The field ministry
‎is a fundamental part
‎of our worship to Jehovah.
‎Bethels are there to support that work.
‎Bethels’ key departments
‎provide tools and training needed
‎to carry out the preaching work
‎and support and defend
‎our rights to do so.
‎Some of these departments
‎are Service, Audio/Video,
‎Local/Design Construction,
‎Translation, and Legal,
‎to mention a few.
‎In turn, none of these could function
‎without the support of departments
‎such as Purchasing, Accounting,
‎Computers,
‎Maintenance, and Kitchen
‎and Home Departments,
‎which care for the welfare
‎of the many volunteers working at Bethel.
‎So any simplification made to Bethel
‎would ultimately benefit the activity in the field.
‎Branch Committees around the world
‎were asked to reduce the size
‎of their Bethel families.
‎Now, this required us to rethink
‎the way we work
‎and the way we live at Bethel.
‎Simplified meal arrangements
‎has meant that Bethelites
‎now prepare some of their own meals.
‎Likewise, in many branches
‎they are responsible
‎for caring for their own laundry.
‎They now
‎also look after their own housekeeping.
‎Many more commuters
‎and remote volunteers
‎are being used to carry out work
‎that previously would have required
‎a permanent Bethelite.
‎These and other changes
‎have resulted
‎in making better use of donated funds
‎but are ultimately benefiting
‎the preaching work.
‎The Bethel family
‎has really responded very well
‎to these changes,
‎and we can see
‎how the direction given to us
‎from the Governing Body
‎is really benefiting
‎our brothers and sisters in the field.
‎And those
‎who’ve been reassigned to the field
‎are doing really well
‎in their assignments.
‎So how did this announcement
‎affect the branch relocation project
‎underway in Britain?
‎When the announcement was made in 2015,
‎plans were very well advanced.
‎This meant that we needed
‎to put the project on hold
‎while new requirements
‎for Bethel were evaluated.
‎This effectively led to a redesign
‎and a reduction
‎in the scope of the project.
‎For example,
‎the Bethel kitchen and dining spaces
‎became more compact,
‎as they were now largely preparing food
‎for only one meal a day rather than three.
‎There was no need for a central laundry,
‎as this would be cared for by the individuals
‎in their own private accommodations.
‎Rather than a large dining room
‎that’s only used for one hour a day
‎or an auditorium
‎only used one hour a week,
‎now a large multipurpose event space
‎was planned
‎which could be flexibly reconfigured
‎for various uses.
‎Offices could also be reconfigured,
‎either as private offices
‎or as large open work spaces
‎with relatively little reconstruction required.
‎The Governing Body was very clear
‎that as adaptive needs
‎of the organization came about,
‎they wanted
‎to make these changes quickly.
‎We trust that the lessons learned
‎from our project may aid
‎in other branch projects to follow.
‎In summary, we can see
‎that Bethels around the world
‎support the preaching and teaching work,
‎and these changes are evidence of that.
‎Well, at Philippians 1:10, we’re told
‎to “make sure
‎of the more important things.”
‎We desire to give priority to those activities
‎that contribute the most
‎to the spiritual welfare of God’s people
‎and the advancement
‎of the global preaching work.